# HEARING-IMPAIRED


 Hearing impaired application, will be capable of serving more than 3 million hearing impaired people across the globe. The application provides a set of innovative functionalities, of which the important one being the facility to convert from text to speech and from speech to text making it easy for the hearing impaired to communicate. The application allows quick switch between both the conversion modes. The specialty of this functionality is the support of more than 75 languages ,that is, translation to and from these languages to the other. Another innovative idea is to provide an offline ‘hearing test’ using which the user gets an idea of what his hearing capacity is which in turn enables him to customize the app in accordance with his personnel requirements (his hearing capacity). The application contains a set of inspirational quotes which encourage the physically challenged which scroll beneath the main screen of the application when the app is run in a loop , for we the developers realize the importance of motivating the disabled . The application provides links to blogs and community sites dedicated to the physically challenged and specifically the hearing impaired where they meet hearing impaired people from around the globe and will be capable of sharing their views on different aspects of daily life. Finally, the application comes preloaded with a few videos teaching the ‘Hand Gesture’ communication method along with the facility to retrieve more videos of this genre if interested. A main functionality of the application that requires special mention is that of sending automated messages in cases of emergency. (It is learnt that the hearing impaired , or the disabled in general are not as active or responsive as normal people , such that they wouldn’t find it easy to respond to emergency situations).
